# Tight knot constant

## Description of constant

$C_{22a}$ is the largest constant for which one has an inequality 

$L\geq C_{22a}C^{3/4}$


for all knots, where $L$ is the ropelength of a knot (or link) with [crossing number](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crossing_number_(knot_theory)) $C$. The _ropelength_ $L$ is the infimum over all embeddings of the knot (or link) of the ratio of the contour length of the knot to its thickness. The _thickness_ is defined as the radius of the smallest circle that passes through any three points on the knot (where collinear points yield an infinite radius). Colloquially, the ropelength is the least amount of rope required to tie a specific knot in a rope of unit radius. See [CKS2002] for the full definition.

## Known upper bounds
Upper bounds are typically found by finding a tight instance of a specific knot using gradient descent (usually a torus knot).

| Bound | Reference | Comments |
| ----- | --------- | -------- |
| 12.81| [SDKP1998] | $8_{19}$ knot |
| 12.63| [ACPR2011] | $10_{124}$ knot |
| 10.76| [KM2021] | $T(25,26)$ knot |
| 10.02| [Klotz2026] | $T(24,19)$ knot |


## Known lower bounds

| Bound | Reference | Comments |
| ----- | --------- | -------- |
|0.418 | [DE1998] | Based on lattice embeddings.
| $\left(\frac{4\pi}{11}\right)^{3/4}\approx 1.105$ | [BS1999] | Argument based on an "electromagnetic" knot energy. The 11 in the denominator can be replaced by 10.67, bringing the bound to 1.13, but it is always reported as 11. |


## Additional comments

- There is also a convention where the ropelength is defined relative to a unit-diameter rope, but unit-radius is more common.
- Conjectured lower bound of 3.22 [Klotz2025] based on Mobius energy argument.
- For knots without asymptotically large crossing number $C$ (currently below 1850) a stronger bound exists [Diao2003].
- Alternating knots have a linear lower bound, discussed in [22b](https://teorth.github.io/optimizationproblems/constants/22b.html).

## References

- [CKS2002] Cantarella, Jason; Kusner, Robert B.; Sullivan, John M. On the minimum ropelength of knots and links. Invent. Math. 150, No. 2, 257-286 (2002).
- [SDKP1998] Stasiak, Andrzej; Dubochet, Jacques; Katrich, Vsevolod; Pieranski, Piotr. Ideal knots and their relation to the physics of real knots. Ideal knots 19, 1-19 (1998).
- [ACPR2011] Ashton, Ted; Cantarella, Jason; Piatek, Michael; Rawdon, Eric. Knot tightening by constrained gradient descent. Exp. Math. 20, No. 1, 57-90 (2011).
- [KM2021] Klotz, Alexander R.; Maldonado, Matthew. The ropelength of complex knots. J. Phys. A 54, No. 44, 445201 (2021).
- [DE1998] Diao, Yuanan; Ernst, Claus. The complexity of lattice knots. Topol. Appl. 90, No. 1-3, 1-9 (1998).
- [BS1999] Buck, Gregory; Simon, Jonathan. Thickness and crossing number of knots. Topol. Appl. 91, No. 3, 245-257 (1999).
- [Klotz2025] Klotz, Alexander. Geometric considerations for energy minimization of topological links and chainmail networks. [arXiv:2507.20903](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.20903)
- [Diao2003] Diao, Yuanan. The lower bounds of the lengths of thick knots. J. Knot Theory Ramifications 12, No. 01, 1-16 (2003).
- [Klotz2026] Klotz, Alexander R. Tight Bounds for Tight Links: Ropelength of T(Q,Q) torus links. [arXiv:2603.02416](https://arxiv.org/abs/2603.02416).


## Contribution notes
