# Gilbert-Pollak conjecture (Steiner ratio)

## Description of constant

$C_{43}$ is defined as the infimum of the ratio of the length of the Steiner Minimal Tree to the length of the Euclidean Minimum Spanning Tree over all finite sets of points $V \subseteq \mathbb{R}^2$: $C_{43} = \inf_{V}L_S(V)/L_M(V)$, where $L_S(V)$ and $L_M(V)$ denote the lengths of Steiner Minimal Tree and Minimum Spanning Tree, respectively.


Consider a set $V$ of $n$ points in the Euclidean plane $\mathbb{R}^2$. A spanning tree on $V$ is a connected, acyclic graph with vertex set $V$. When the length of each edge is defined as the Euclidean distance between its endpoints, a spanning tree that minimizes the total length is called a Minimum Spanning Tree. The shortest network interconnecting all points in $V$, where the length of each edge is measured by Euclidean distance, is necessarily a tree, referred to as a Steiner Minimal Tree. A Steiner Minimal Tree may contain auxiliary vertices not in $V$. 


## Known upper bounds

| Bound | Reference | Comments |
| ----- | --------- | -------- |
| $\sqrt{3}/2 \approx 0.866$ | [GP1968] | equilateral triangle |


## Known lower bounds

| Bound | Reference | Comments |
| ----- | --------- | -------- |
| $0.5$ | [GP1968] |  |
| $0.577$ | [GH1976] |  |
| $0.743$ | [CH1978] |  |
| $0.8$ | [DH1983] |  |
| $0.824$ | [CG1985] |  |
| $0.8559$ | [KHSHGW2026] | New improvement, preprint |


## Additional comments

* In 1968, Gilbert and Pollak conjectured that Steiner ratio is $\sqrt{3}/2 \approx 0.866$, but this remains unproven. More information can be found at [Wikipedia page on the Gilbert-Pollak conjecture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gilbert%E2%80%93Pollak_conjecture).

## References

- **[GP1968]** Gilbert, E. N. and Pollak, H. O. *Steiner minimal trees.* SIAM Journal on Applied Mathematics, 16(1):1–29, 1968.
- **[GH1976]** Graham, R. L. and Hwang, F. K. *Remarks on steiner minimal trees.* Bull. Inst. Math. Acad. Sinica, 4(1):177–182, 1976.
- **[CH1978]** Chung, F. and Hwang, F. *A lower bound for the steiner tree problem.* SIAM Journal on Applied Mathematics, 34(1): 27–36, 1978.
- **[DH1983]** Du, D.-Z. and Hwang, F. K. *A new bound for the steiner ratio.* Transactions of the American Mathematical Society, 278(1):137–148, 1983.
- **[CG1985]** Chung, F. R. and Graham, R. L. *A new bound for euclidean steiner minimal trees.* Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, 440(1):328–346, 1985.
- **[KHSHGW2026]** Ke, Y., Huang, T., Shu, Y., He, D., Gai, J., and Wang, L. *Towards Solving the Gilbert-Pollak Conjecture via Large Language Models.* [arXiv:2601.22365](https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.22365). Preprint (2026).