#  The coefficient of the acyclic chromatic index

## Description of constant
Let $G$ be a simple graph. The acyclic chromatic index $\chi_{a}'(G)$ of $G$ is defined to be the least number of colors needed to color the edges of $G$  so that no two edges coincident on the same vertex are homochromatic and there is no cycle whose edges are colored with only two colors.

Let $\Delta$ be the maximum degree of $G$. The coefficient of the acyclic chromatic index, here to be denoted  by $C_{55}$, is defined to be the infimum of all $c$ such that for all $G$,
$\chi_a'(G) \leq c \Delta +o(\Delta)$. Easily, $1 \leq C_{55}.$

It has been conjectured ([F1978], [ASZ2001]) that for all graphs, the acyclic chromatic index is at most $\Delta +2.$ A consequence of this conjecture would be that  $C_{55} =1$.


## Known upper bounds

| Bound | Reference | Comments |
| ----- | --------- | -------- |
| 16 | [AMR1991], [MR1998] ||
|9.62| [NPS2012] ||
|4| [EP2013] ||
|3.74| [GKPT2017] ||
|4-| [GKZ2018] ||
|3.569| [FLM2020]||
|3.142|[KLS2026]||

## Known lower bounds

| Bound | Reference | Comments |
| ----- | --------- | -------- |
| 1 | Trivial | conjectured to be sharp |


## References
- [F1978] J. Fiamčik,
The acyclic chromatic class of a graph (in Russian), *Math. Slovaca*, 28, 139-145, 1978.

- [ASZ2001] N. Alon, B. Sudakov, and A. Zaks.
Acyclic edge colorings of graphs,
*Journal of Graph Theory*, 37(3), 157-167, 2001.

- [AMR1991] N. Alon, C. McDiarmid, and B. Reed,
Acyclic coloring of graphs *Random Structures & Algorithms*, 2(3), 277-288, 1991.

- [MR1998] M. Molloy, and B. Reed.
Further algorithmic aspects of the local lemma,
*Proceedings of the thirtieth annual ACM symposium on Theory
  of computing*, 524-529, 1998.

- [NPS2012] S. Ndreca, A. Procacci, B. Scoppola,
Improved bounds on coloring of graphs
*Eur. J. of Comb.*, 33(4), 592-609, 2012.

- [EP2013] L. Esperet, and A. Parreau, Acyclic edge-coloring using entropy compression,
*Eur. J. Comb.*, 34(6), 1019--1027, 2013.

 - [GKPT2017] I. Giotis, L. Kirousis, K.I. Psaromiligkos, and D.M.
  Thilikos,
Acyclic edge coloring through the Lovász local lemma.
*Theoretical Computer Science*, 665, 40-50, 2017,
Correction in: arXiv 1407.5374.

- [GKZ2018] G. Gutowski, J. Kozik, and X. Zhu.
Acyclic edge coloring using entropy compression,
*Abstracts of the 7th Polish Combinatorial Conference*, 2018. Available:
 [here](https://7pcc.tcs.uj.edu.pl/program.php).

- [FLM2020] P.M.S Fialho, B.N.B de Lima, and A. Procacci,
A new bound on the acyclic edge chromatic number,
*Discrete Mathematics*, 343(11), 112037, 2020.

- [KLS2026] L. Kirousis, J. Livieratos, and A. Singh, arXiv 2602.14859, 2026.
