# Essential minimum of the Zhang-Zagier height

## Description of constant

Let $\overline{\mathbb{Q}}$ be the set of all algebraic numbers. The naïve height $h : \overline{\mathbb{Q}} \rightarrow \mathbb{R}$ is
defined as follows. Let $\alpha \in \overline{\mathbb{Q}}$ and let $P(x)$ be an irreducible primitive polynomial with integers coefficients
such that $P(\alpha)=0$. Let $n$ be the degree and $a$ be the leading coefficient of $P(x)$. Then,

$$h(\alpha):=\frac{1}{n}\left( \log|a|+\sum_{P(\beta)=0} \log \max (1,|\beta|)\right).$$

The Zhang-Zagier height is the function

$$h_Z : \overline{\mathbb{Q}} \rightarrow \mathbb{R}, \quad h_Z(\alpha)=h(\alpha)+h(1-\alpha).$$

The **essential minimum of the Zhang-Zagier height** is the smallest number $C\_{82}$ such that there exists a finite set
$S\subseteq \overline{\mathbb{Q}}$ with the property that the inequality $h_Z(\alpha)\geq C\_{82}$ holds for all
$\alpha \in \overline{\mathbb{Q}}\setminus S$.

## Known upper bounds

| Bound | Reference | Comments |
| ----- | --------- | -------- |
|0.39679 | [D03], Section 7 |  |
| 0.25594 | [Doc01a] |  $h_Z=\log \mathfrak{h}$ in his notation |
| 0.25444 | [Doc01b] | Best known upper bound |

## Known lower bounds

| Bound | Reference | Comments |
| ----- | --------- | -------- |
| 0 | trivial |  |
|0 | [Zha95]      | Strict inequality  |
| $\frac{1}{2}\log \big(\frac{1+\sqrt{5}}{2}\big)=0.2406059...$  | [Zag93]    |                |
| 0.24824    | [Doc01a]  | $h_Z=\log \mathfrak{h}$ in his notation   |
| 0.24874 | [F18] | $h_Z=\log \zeta$ in her notation, best known lower bound |


## Additional comments

- All the lower bounds other than [Zha95] are obtained by an algorithm pionered by C.J. Smyth [S80]. The upper bounds are obtained by
  an algorithm based in the determination the asymptotic distribution of Galois conjugates of small algebraic integers. It is shown (non
  effectively) in [BMQS] that both algorithms converge to $C\_{82}$ if they were to run indefinitely.
- A similar problem is the determination of the essential minimum $\mu^{ess}(h_F)$ of the stable Faltings height on elliptic curves, for
  which it is known $−0.748629 \leq \mu^{ess}(h_F) \leq −0.748622$ [BMRL]

## References

- [BMQS] Burgos Gil, J., Menares, R., Qu, B., Sombra, M. Closing the gap around the essential minimum of height functions with linear programming. arXiv:2601.18978, preprint 2026
- [BMRL] Burgos Gil, J., Menares, R., Rivera-Letelier, J. On the essential minimum of Faltings' height.
Math. Comp. 87 (2018), no. 313, 2425–2459.
- [Doc01a] Doche, Ch.
On the spectrum of the Zhang-Zagier height.
Math. Comp. 70 (2001), no. 233, 419–430.
- [Doc01b] Doche, Ch.
Zhang-Zagier heights of perturbed polynomials.
21st Journées Arithmétiques (Rome, 2001)
J. Théor. Nombres Bordeaux 13 (2001), no. 1, 103–110.
- [D03] Dresden, Gregory P.
Sums of heights of algebraic numbers.
Math. Comp. 72 (2003), no. 243, 1487–1499
-[F18] Flammang, V.
On the Zhang-Zagier measure.
Int. J. Number Theory 14 (2018), no. 10, 2663–2671
- [S80] Smyth, C. J.
On the measure of totally real algebraic integers.
J. Austral. Math. Soc. Ser. A 30 (1980/81), no. 2, 137–149.
- [Zag93] Zagier, D.
Algebraic numbers close to both 0 and 1.
Math. Comp. 61 (1993), no. 203, 485–491.
- [Zha95] Zhang, S.
Positive line bundles on arithmetic varieties.
J. Amer. Math. Soc. 8 (1995), no. 1, 187–221.
